README.md, before:

Simple services container for creating and managing singletons.

# Kontik

Define all services as separate files/folders on one place and call them as singleton from one injected manager.

## Usage

### Creating services manager

```javascript
import kontik from 'kontik';

const config = {
    value: 42
};

const options = {
    dir: __dirname + "/services" // Default is process.cwd()
};

const services = kontik(config, options);
```

### Service providers definition

Service providers is created in one directory (default `[ CURRENT_WORKING_DIRECTORY ]/services`).
In this directory you can create file or folder (with `index.js`) with provider name.
You can define them as class or function.

__Function definition:__

```javascript
module.exports = function (services, config) {
    var value = config.value;
    
    return {
        getValue: function () {
            return value;
        }
    }
}
```

__ES6 class definition:__

```javascript
export default class SimpleService
{
    constructor(services, config) {
        this._value = config.value;
    }
    
    getValue() {
        return this._value;
    }
}
```

### Async providers

In Javascript is almost everything based on asynchronous process. That means that you need to have some common way, 
how to call asynchronously defined services together with synchronous services without remembering,
which way is service loaded.

__From version 2.x.x Kontik have only async method for calling services.__

```javascript
import kontik from 'kontik';

const config = {...};

const services = kontik(config, options);

const print = async () => {
    const simpleService = await services.SimpleService;
    
    console.log(simpleService.getValue());
}
```

After that every call to any service is served every time through Promise.   

#### How it works?

It's simple. When you call some service, loader check, if returned value from service initial function is promise
(has `.then` function).

If it's not, it return synchronous object as asynchronous through Promise.

When you want initialize asynchronous service, just return Promise in initial function.

__For example:__

```javascript
export default (services, config) => {
    return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
        setTimeout(() => {
            resolve(new SomeService(services, config));
        }, 10000);
    });
};
```

Remember, that all service initial functions is called as singleton. And it also applies in this. When initial promise
is resolved, result is saved and event it's served through promise, it's already saved in container memory.

### Predefined services

Sometimes you need create services with different way or you need to initialize them on different place, but work
with them inside services initialized in Kontik.

That's why here is solution how you can pass already initialized object to Kontik constructor.

```javascript
import kontik from 'kontik';

const config = {...};

const services = kontik(config, {
    services: {
        PredefinedService: new SomeService()
    }
});

console.log(services.PredefinedService.getSomeValue());
```

Commit message:

Add getService function for loading typed services (#8)
* Add getService function for loading typed services

* Remove node v6 from supported versions.

README.md, after:

Simple services container for creating and managing singletons.

# Kontik

Define all services as separate files/folders on one place and call them as singleton from one injected manager.

## Usage

### Creating services manager

```javascript
import kontik from 'kontik';

const config = {
    value: 42
};

const options = {
    dir: __dirname + "/services" // Default is process.cwd()
};

const services = kontik(config, options);
```

### Service providers definition

Service providers is created in one directory (default `[ CURRENT_WORKING_DIRECTORY ]/services`).
In this directory you can create file or folder (with `index.js`) with provider name.
You can define them as class or function.

__Function definition:__

```javascript
module.exports = function (services, config) {
    var value = config.value;
    
    return {
        getValue: function () {
            return value;
        }
    }
}
```

__ES6 class definition:__

```javascript
export default class SimpleService
{
    constructor(services, config) {
        this._value = config.value;
    }
    
    getValue() {
        return this._value;
    }
}
```

### Async providers

In Javascript is almost everything based on asynchronous process. That means that you need to have some common way, 
how to call asynchronously defined services together with synchronous services without remembering,
which way is service loaded.

__From version 2.x.x Kontik have only async method for calling services.__

```javascript
import kontik from 'kontik';

const config = {...};

const services = kontik(config, options);

const print = async () => {
    const simpleService = await services.SimpleService;
    
    console.log(simpleService.getValue());
}
```

After that every call to any service is served every time through Promise.  

### Typed calls

It you write code in TypeScript, it's good to know what type is returned from container as service.

For this you can use method with reserved name `getService` and to generic parameter add expected type.

```typescript
const simpleService = await services.getService<SimpleService>('SimpleService');
``` 

From now your IDE will suggest you methods of wanted instance.

__For now it's only cosmetic feature which makes programming little bit nicer.
Unfortunately JavaScript service loader can't check types based on generic type.__

#### How it works?

It's simple. When you call some service, loader check, if returned value from service initial function is promise
(has `.then` function).

If it's not, it return synchronous object as asynchronous through Promise.

When you want initialize asynchronous service, just return Promise in initial function.

__For example:__

```javascript
export default (services, config) => {
    return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
        setTimeout(() => {
            resolve(new SomeService(services, config));
        }, 10000);
    });
};
```

Remember, that all service initial functions is called as singleton. And it also applies in this. When initial promise
is resolved, result is saved and event it's served through promise, it's already saved in container memory.

### Predefined services

Sometimes you need create services with different way or you need to initialize them on different place, but work
with them inside services initialized in Kontik.

That's why here is solution how you can pass already initialized object to Kontik constructor.

```javascript
import kontik from 'kontik';

const config = {...};

const services = kontik(config, {
    services: {
        PredefinedService: new SomeService()
    }
});

console.log(services.PredefinedService.getSomeValue());
```
